# Error: 0076

The declaration could not be generated.

## Description

A Piral instance emulator package consists of a pre-bundled version of the
app shell, its package.json, files for scaffolding, and generated typings.

The typings are generated to provide the smallest bundle possible, together
with accurate typing that does not only reflect the truly available subset
for the pilets, but also custom API additions and more.

Our way of generating requires a custom tool called dets, which is a TS
declaration bundler. It can do more than just spit out *.d.ts file and
somehow merge them together - it actually performs this on the real AST
of the found application. This way any interface merging is respected,
as well as not available APIs omitted.

When the declaration cannot be created its either the fault of a missing
configuration or a bug in dets. Make sure to have an appropriate package.json
with the right configuration. The tsconfig.json is not used, so any
custom setting there may also be indicator of an issue.

## Example

The declaration can be build independently:

```sh
piral declaration
```

If an error occurs check first if the package.json contains a valid "app"
field pointing to the HTML. The HTML requires a script reference to the
entry point of the appplication, e.g.,

```html
<script src="./index.tsx"></script>
```

The TypeScript declaration generator will take all files as input to
gather all required information for constructing the API declaration.

## Further Reading

- [dets](https://github.com/FlorianRappl/dets)
- [AST](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abstract_syntax_tree)
